Hello everybody and welcome back.
In this lecture we're going to make these guardrails going up and down our pyramid.
We're gonna make use of snapping in order to do that because it doesn't just work on a object level.
It works when you're editing as well and can be incredibly useful as you can reference other parts of
your model in order to create new geometry, Lets hop over into a blender and find out more.
Okay so in front of us here we have our lovely ramp that we've got in place now it is connected to the
rest of our model so when we put these two loop cuts in so let's put to loop cuts in we've got to bear
in mind that they run around our entire model.
So we have to think carefully about that if we do any operations especially if we end up selecting a
face loop and forgetting that it runs around our model because that could really screw things up.
Now with these selected I'm going to go ahead and select both of these and then using subtract just
select the other ones around the model itself.
Okay.
So in order to separate these I could move them individually I could slide them.
In this case I'm going to use the scaling function.
Now that looks like it's just scaling in and out but if I lock it to the Y axis it will in fact just
move backwards and forwards from one another.
And I'm going to pick an arbitrary point just because I can.
And that's going to enable me to set the the thickness of our railings that are going down.
The next thing I need to do is actually extrude these up and I need to snap them to a certain level.
Now it won't matter which parts of the model we used for the example you can use a different part of
it if you'd like.
But in this particular case we're going to use the snapping functionality in a moment to tell blender
how far we want to extrude something.
So let's go ahead and select this face loop going down and this one and that will of course of selected
everything else.
So its still on subtract.
I'm gonna get rid of all of those and those as well you will end up with some funny stuff going on.
If we don't do that.
Okay.
So we going to here,
use the snapping tool to actually lift this up and move it across to a certain location.
So the first thing we need to do is extrude.
That's fine that's working but we could extrude and snap it to the very top of these corners.
And I pressed Escape that will have extruded by nothing.
I'm going to undo that before I do anything else I want to turn on snapping and I'm gonna turn it to
vertex snapping and I'm going to press the E key again and we can see that almost immediately it snaps
to all of these vertices even the ones that are far away from the parts of the model we're actually
extruding that's incredibly useful if we wanted it to match the height we could do that as well.
Now you can see from the side here that it's a bit different.
If we select something that's higher up in fact it doesn't appear to be snapping to the right height
as you might expect it would.
And that's because it's actually snapped
so it's in line.
So if we were to extrude all the way up that would meet with that top edge perfectly.
And the reason why it's doing that is because it's snapping to a normal.
Notice the blue line isn't going directly up this time but it's going outwards slightly.
And if we have a look at the top left we see that it's two point one two one meters normal.
If we were to press the Z key again it would turn to local and face directly up in which case it does
snap exactly where we would expect it to snap.
So if we press the Z key once more is actually now literally snapping and dragging the model over.
And if we press Z a couple more times we can switch between local and global.
But unfortunately we've lost the ability to go back to normal.
So I'm gonna press escape which will still once again keep extrude there but have a look at the top
header bar.
Notice it says global currently.
Which means now that we've extruded by nothing.
If I was to go G and start lifting things up only on the Z axis once again it's locked to the global
Z all the way up.
If I press Z again it's locked it's the local Z which in this case is still all the way up.
What I want to do is change where it says global to normal.
This gives us the ability to go back to where we were before and snap it exactly where we want it to
be.
And in this case it's going to be right there okay.
So that's pretty much sorted out the main ramp section.
How about this area at the top here and at the bottom it would be nice if they sat flush and at the
moment.
Before we get onto our challenge I have noticed that as I'm trying to move around is really difficult
at the moment.
If you also find this is happening what you can do yourself is go to view and frame selected or indeed
frame all, frame selected will help focus on whatever selected and then you can move about much more
freely and around the objects.
And it also will reset your zoom if you're having trouble moving around your model and you can see the
option there is the numberpad full stop or period key.
And now it's time for your challenge.
Okay.
So for your challenge I'd like to finish off creating the railings that we've started.
Connect them to the pyramid at the top and the ground level at the bottom and try and get it as accurate
as you can.
Let's go have a look at what you're aiming for.
So here we go we've got the railings at the bottom meeting the ground and at the very top they connect
with the rest of the pyramid towards the back.
And I've decided here to snap them in place to where this part of the geometry of the doorway exists
already.
OK so go ahead pause video now and give that a go. Okay everybody welcome back.
Let's go see how I went about finishing off these railings Hello everybody and welcome back.
OK.
So we've got a couple of options here on how we go ahead and do this.
As I've said before there's going to be no right or wrong way.
So we've got to somehow get these faces all the way back to this wall that's not going to be easy to
do unless there's an extrude.
Otherwise we're going to change the overall ramps dimensions or actually changing direction here.
So I'm going to extrude and I'm just going to let it snap to a random place for the moment.
And now we've got these two edges.
So the first thing that I'm going to do is I'm going to select the lower edge then it's very difficult
to work your way around this model.
So I'm going to switch it's a wireframe mode to see that edge and that edge there.
Yes I've been very fortunate being able to select it and I'm going to go G to start moving it and see
if I can get it roughly in the right place.
It doesn't look like it's going to snap.
Ideally some of the press escape and just have a look at the different options I've got.
So I'm going to go to face select first and then go G Z and select this face down here.
Now I don't want the normal I'm going to have to press that again to lock it
to this top face now is going to turn transparency off and we can see here that it's now locked in solid
mode to the bottom here.
Excellent.
With it's still selected it is still selected.
Yes it is.
I can move it along the X axis again.
So I'm locking it to oo No not X. Y, yes the Y axis and lock it onto this face here the one right at
the front.
But I can also do that if it's not.
It doesn't seem to be working quite how I want it to.
In this case to just vertex once more because I can go G to move it Y to lock it to the Y axis and then
I can snap it smack bang where I want it to.
Now it looks like it was never snapped quite to the right place in the first place.
So when I go G Z this time and snap it right down at the bottom thought I had it there but I obviously
didn't.
Okay.
So the next thing that I'm going to do here is grab these two edges at the top and do a similar thing.
In this case I'm going to go G lock it to the Y axis and move it along.
In fact I don't want it moving in the Z.
There we go that is exactly what I wanted.
Now these two here aren't quite lined up how I want them it actually be a bit higher but you know what
I'm going to let that slide.
That's the top bit done for me.
Let's move round to the bottom and once again there are a couple of options here and let's frame them
in.
Okay so there are a couple of ways that we could go about doing this.
I think the easiest one is to eyeball it and whizz round to the side and just extrude outwards.
And I'm going to extrude roughly the exact number to extrude by is about that actually.
It's going to be half of root two and root to is about one point four something.
So that's pretty much on the money.
And if we have a look here with just a little bit off so compressed G again and press Z to make sure
is moving along the normal still and get it lined up pretty much bang on and then these bottom two edges
if I'm still in the position to select both of them edge there.
And this one here we can lift them up.
If I go to this properties panel to where z equals zero.
And we can tell I was almost right there because that's a point five will be spot on.
Okay.
So there we go.
That is the bottom of my ramp.
Not too bad at all.
And that's starting to look pretty good.
Let's just look at it in a shaded mode in this case and when we use lookdev.
Yeah.
That's coming along really nicely and looking at it with a bit of shadow on it from this direction coming
along nicely.
How did your ralings come along.
Please show your work over in the discussions and I'll see you all in the next lecture.